Some notable people who disliked cats:  Napoleon Bonaparte, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Hitler.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
Blue-eyed, white cats are often prone to deafness.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
Cats lived with soldiers in trenches, where they killed mice during World War I.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
During the time of the Spanish Inquisition, Pope Innocent VIII condemned cats as evil and thousands of cats were burned. Unfortunately, the widespread killing of cats led to an explosion of the rat population, which exacerbated the effects of the Black Death.
Phoenician cargo ships are thought to have brought the first domesticated cats to Europe in about 900 BC.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
The leopard is the most widespread of all big cats.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
A cat's normal temperature varies around 101 degrees Fahrenheit.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Most cats had short hair until about 100 years ago, when it became fashionable to own cats and experiment with breeding.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
The richest cat is Blackie who was left £15 million by his owner, Ben Rea.
Researchers are unsure exactly how a cat purrs. Most veterinarians believe that a cat purrs by vibrating vocal folds deep in the throat. To do this, a muscle in the larynx opens and closes the air passage about 25 times per second.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
In Holland’s embassy in Moscow, Russia, the staff noticed that the two Siamese cats kept meowing and clawing at the walls of the building. Their owners finally investigated, thinking they would find mice. Instead, they discovered microphones hidden by Russian spies. The cats heard the microphones when they turned on.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
In just 7 years, one un-spayed female cat and one un-neutered male cat and their offspring can result in 420,000 kittens.
The first cat show was organized in 1871 in London. Cat shows later became a worldwide craze.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
In 1987, cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America (about 50 million cats resided in 24 million homes in 1986). About 37% of American homes today have at least one cat.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
The heaviest cat on record is Himmy, a Tabby from Queensland, Australia. He weighed nearly 47 pounds (21 kg). He died at the age of 10.
All cats have three sets of long hairs that are sensitive to pressure - whiskers, eyebrows,and the hairs between their paw pads.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
